---
layout: default
title: Open Data FAQ 
---

## {{page.title}}

### What is Open Data?

Most often, 'open data' refers to the idea that data controlled by a government
body should be accessible to citizens and other government bodies in a
structured format. The concept of open data can be broken down into three
levels:

* Legal access to data - Citizens have the basic right to access government
  data
* Reasonable access to data - Government data can be accessed at a reasonable
  cost and within a reasonable time frame
* Access to structured data - Government data can be retrieved in an open
  format that computer programs can readily understand and process. For
  example, a CSV is an open, structured format, while a PDF is not.

### What is an Open Standard?

In the context of open data, an open standard typically refers to a data format
whose specification is freely available to be read and implemented by anybody.
Data available in an open standard is often the most accessible to analysts,
journalists, and programmers, as anybody can access the tools and information
needed to work with that data. Because of this, open standards often support
competitive markets of applications and organizations that perform similar
services on similar types of data.
      
### Do City reports provide access to city data?

Not to the level that open data does. A report published by the city represents
a finished presentation of data. The report includes analysis, formatting and
layout, and commentary that is meant to be read by people, and often meant to
be read by a certain audience. While these presentations of data are valuable,
they usually do not provide the raw, structured data required by others who
wish to create their own analyses, presentations, or new applications.

### Which cities officially support open data?

A (report by the San Diego Data Bank)[http://www.sandiegodata.org/reports/municipal-open-data-policies/]
recently analyzed the policies of 8 major US and Canadian cities that have
implemented open data programs in the last seven years. These cities include
Austin, Chicago, Philadelphia, Portland, New York, San Francisco, Washington,
D.C. At the federal level, the White House has also implemented an open data
policy for the  executive branch.
