---
layout: blog 
title: 2013 Minneapolis/St. Paul Open Data Questionnaire Results
tags: [minneapolis, st.paul, open data, 2013 election]
---

October 1st has come and gone, as has a bit of time to allow for mail in
responses to make it to our mailboxes. Now we are proud to announce the
release of candidate responses to the questionnaire.

## The Questionnaire is Still Open

Before getting to the data, we first want to point out that we have decided to
keep the questionnaires open through the end of the election. With nearly a
month left until election day, we realized there is no good reason not to
continue to allow candidates to state their position on the issue of open data.
As results come in to the questionnaire, the spreadsheet linked to below will
be updated. So be sure to check back between now and the election for any new
responses.
      
## The Responses

**[Click Here to view the raw responses to our Minneapolis and St. Paul Mayoral and City Council Open Data questionnaires.](https://docs.google.com/a/opentwincities.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AnxjauG_7LHqdGtzTzd4MmRwdmctY19USHdrSzJCdVE#gid=0)**
      
Some quick numbers:

- In total, **93** candidates across Minneapolis and St. Paul were sent the
  open data questionnaire. This included:

  - **35** candidates for Mayor of Minneapolis
  - **4** candidates for Mayor of St. Paul
  - **47** candidates for City Council in Minneapolis
  - **7** candidates for City Council in St. Paul

- Of these, **24** candidates (all from Minneapolis) responded to the 
  questionnaire.

  - **11** candidates for Mayor of Minneapolis filled out the questionnaire
  - **1** candidate for Mayor of Minneapolis provided a general statement on 
    open data
  - **11** candidates for Minneapolis City Council filled out the questionnaire
  - **1** candidate for Minneapolis City Council provided a general statement
    on open data

## Who Responded

The following candidates either filled out the questionnaire or provided a
general statement: Mark V Anderson, Kris Brogan, Christopher Clark, Dan Cohen,
Vincent Coffeen, Missy Durant, Ben Gisselman, Elizabeth Glidden, Kristina
Gronquist, Kurtis W. Hanna, John Leslie Hartwig, Diane Hofstede, Gregg A.
Iverson, Andrew Johnson, Linea Palmisano, Abdul M Rahaman, Ole Savior, Matt
Steele, Meg Tuthill, John Charles Wilson, Cam Winton, Stephanie Woodruff, Blong
Yang, and Christopher Robin Zimmerman.

## Who Didn't Respond

The following candidates did not respond to the questionnaire: Abdi Abdulle,
Abdi Addow, Abdi Warsame, Abukar Abdi, Alicia K. Bennett, Alondra Cano, Barbara
A. "Barb" Johnson, Betsy Hodges, Bill Kahn, Bob "Again" Carney Jr, Bob Fine,
Bob Reuer, Bob Schlosser, Brett Buckner, Cam Gordon, Captain Jack Sparrow,
Charles Curtis, Charlie Casserly, Chris Coleman, Chris Lautenschlager, Cyd
Gorman, Dai Thao, Dan Niesen, David Regan, Debbie Montgomery, Diana Newberry,
Dick Franson, Don Samuels, Doug Mann, Edmund Bernard Bruyere, Gregory McDonald,
Ian Alexander, Jackie Cherryhomes, Jacob Frey, James "Jimmy" L. Stroud, Jr.,
James Everett, Jaymie Kelly, Jeffrey Alan Wagner, John Quincy, Johnny Howard,
Joshua Rea, Kale R. Severson, Kazoua Kong-Thao, Kevin Reich, Kurt "Dirty Kurty"
Dornfeld, Lisa Bender, Lisa Goodman, Mahamed A Cali, Mark Andrew, Mark Fox,
Mark Voerding, Matt Perry, Merrill Anderson, Michael Katch, Mike Gould, Nate
Griggs, Neal Baxter, Noel Nix, Pat Fleetham, Paul Holmgren, Rahn V. Workcuff,
Robert Lilligren, Scott Hargarten, Sharon Anderson, Sheikh Abdul, Tim Holden,
Tony Lane, Troy Benjegerdes, and Ty Moore.

If you care about the issue of open data, we encourage you to contact your 
candidates and ask that they fill out the open data questionnaire that is
sitting in their inbox or mailbox. Contact information for Minneapolis
candidates can be found on this 
[Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/a/e-democracy.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArhmVl0vhGLVdGZRaHk4anRDeElzS3M5MzNfRGR3dGc#gid=0),
while St. Paul candidates can be found on this 
[Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/a/e-democracy.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AvVUbsCmsj1jdDNDRE1OTXgxX2wtQmdZYkxoaVdYMnc#gid=0).

## Thank Yous

First off, we would like to thank all of the candidates who have thus far
responded to the questionnaire. We appreciate the valuable time that candidates
have dedicated to learning about open data and filling out the questionnaire.
Furthermore, we are glad to see a significant number of candidates recognize
open data as an important issue.

We would also like to thank everybody who was involved in making the
questionnaire possible. This took a significant amount of research,
brainstorming, writing, proof reading, emailing, and mailing from a variety of
people. So, thank yous to

- Bill Bushey
- Steven Clift
- Peter Fleck
- Roxanne Johnson
- Kristen Murray
- Alan Palazzolo

## Updates

### October 8th

Today, Troy Benjegerdes filled out the questionnaire. The spreadsheet has been
updated.

### October 9th

Yesterday evening, Bill Kahn filled out the questionnaire. The spreadsheet has
been updated.
